Patricia Naranjo: You know what, you're right.
Patricia Naranjo: I thought about that yesterday. Too bad I can't help myself.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I know it's tough.
Dominique Pozo: Um,
Dominique Pozo: So you got your surgery.
Patricia Naranjo: Yes, I checked out my knee. I don't know. You see,
Dominique Pozo: I can't see but
Dominique Pozo: OK, I see. Wow.
Wow.
Dominique Pozo: Oh my gosh. That's wow, how is it to be having so much more movement and less
Patricia Naranjo: Oh,
Patricia Naranjo: Better
Patricia Naranjo: Practitioner about, you know, cuz I was supposed to go in. You know what I mean physically
Patricia Naranjo: Uh huh. But they told us because of all this. They don't want anybody going to the hospitals.
Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: I sent her a video of me and she said, It's delicious. It looks good for six weeks, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Great.
Dominique Pozo: Oh wait.
Dominique Pozo: You had the surgery six weeks ago already
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, February 10
Dominique Pozo: Wow, wow, okay. It's been a while.
Patricia Naranjo: Like I could bend my mind me, and I can't touch my bought yet but
Uh huh.
Dominique Pozo: Are you doing so you're
Patricia Naranjo: Pretty good.
Dominique Pozo: You're doing physical therapy.
Patricia Naranjo: Hockey every day at least try to walk 30 minutes maybe
Dominique Pozo: Great. Oh good, Patti. I'm so happy to hear
This
Dominique Pozo: Patty, the connections really bad, I think, could you find a place that's near the router and just stay still with it because
Dominique Pozo: I'm not sure if it's because you're moving around, or what but you're getting really broken up.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay, maybe
Patricia Naranjo: last time this happened to me and
Patricia Naranjo: John also. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: So I just kind of keep it still Yeah, that'd be great.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so good. Well, I'm so happy. I know this has been such an issue for you for ever since he
Dominique Pozo: Came into the programmer. Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: Awful. Yeah, so she put two milligrams
Patricia Naranjo: I think better that way.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Wow party the receptions really bad. Would you be willing to
Dominique Pozo: Pop off and then come back on and see if if it gets a little better. OK.
Patricia Naranjo: OK.
Dominique Pozo: No. Can you just take yourself off of off of zoom and then come back on.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay.
Patricia Naranjo: All right. Oh.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. Well, that sounds a little better there.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh,
Dominique Pozo: Oh, I think it's better. I think it's better
Patricia Naranjo: Okay, okay.
Patricia Naranjo: All right. Alright, so
Oh, no.
Dominique Pozo: That'd be great.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Try that. Hopefully, that's better.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: I know what to if you want to take yourself off the video. Just take your video off I seen you. I see you. And that might help.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, okay.
Great.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, so
Patricia Naranjo: She put me on to. So I'm hoping that now, I'll be able to get off of all of it soon, maybe a year or six months.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, just doing a slow tapering process. Well, let's, let's do that. Let's I'm going to move to your treatment plan now.
Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so, so
Dominique Pozo: Right here, I see that by February 10 you buy this, this was the the target goal date. You want it to be done with all drug use, but let's let's update that. When do you think would be realistic. By this time next year.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, let's just put that
Dominique Pozo: Okay, I'm going to move this to long term goals, then
Okay.
Dominique Pozo: 326 and then while I'm doing this. Think of think of some more short term goals that
Patricia Naranjo: You might want to work on. Well, to get myself up and walk every day.
Patricia Naranjo: Because you know what's happened since I've had to be on those crutches. Remember that
Patricia Naranjo: Yes, it's
Patricia Naranjo: I think it's August, all the way till February, my, my legs got really weak. I mean, and you know, and then
Patricia Naranjo: You start having energy, I guess, saying,
Patricia Naranjo: No. So I've been really trying to make myself. Okay, just get up and walk. And so I've been trying to walk out side know like cuz there's a park right across the street.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, good. Okay.
Patricia Naranjo: So I'm taking advantage
Patricia Naranjo: Of that
Dominique Pozo: So I'm hoping to get my next
Patricia Naranjo: Stronger walk from Dan
Dominique Pozo: Great.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay, and hopefully I can see a backpacking trip by the end of summer.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, okay. Let me. I'm gonna write this down.
Patricia Naranjo: That's all right.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, let's see.
Patricia Naranjo: Um, I would like to try that, you know, do it. I've done it before long time ago.
Dominique Pozo: Where do you want to do that what
Patricia Naranjo: I was thinking maybe I my tribe is go shoot
Patricia Naranjo: Alcorn Utah.
Patricia Naranjo: Uh huh. So we got the mountains right there behind my dad's house.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: So speaking of going out there to his house because he would, he would know how to look for me if anything happened.
Patricia Naranjo: If I go by myself, you know,
Dominique Pozo: That's so great party. I love this. Um,
Patricia Naranjo: But my shirt terms are. I just want to get stronger everyday walk every day.
Patricia Naranjo: I bet I just barely started doing that Monday.
Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: So,
Patricia Naranjo: That, that's what I'm trying to do, and hopefully get back into yoga because I used to do yoga.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Patricia Naranjo: I think that's what saved me.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: Cuz I shattered my pelvis, you know,
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm.
So,
Patricia Naranjo: You know when you do yoga. You know how to do yoga. Right.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh, yeah, yeah. And
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know if you know, but it's more internal. It's hard to explain, I guess.
Patricia Naranjo: But it helps the muscles internally and I honestly I believe that's what helps save me.
Dominique Pozo: It does. It helps our it actually helps our internal organs, really, it's a
Dominique Pozo: Yet, like an internal organ massage
Patricia Naranjo: And
Patricia Naranjo: The only thing they act to do is take out my spleen.
Dominique Pozo: They, they wouldn't
Patricia Naranjo: They took my spleen. When I was in my accident when I shattered my pelvis, because I got ran over by a car.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, gosh.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: The shattered my pelvis and I had to get a Foley and a colostomy
Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: 10 months.
Patricia Naranjo: Mm hmm.
Patricia Naranjo: My coffee for about six months and I even had me on a fixed date or through through my pelvis.
Hmm.
Dominique Pozo: Wow.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, so
Patricia Naranjo: I would like to start to do yoga again.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, and what's realistically, how many times a week. Would you do this.
Patricia Naranjo: Maybe once right now.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, that's great that this is so good to have realistic goals.
Dominique Pozo: So that you can really meet them.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: And
Patricia Naranjo: She's helped my granddaughter been helping her with their schoolwork every day.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: See you, and I hope
Patricia Naranjo: That helps me too, because I'm like today. We did so much. I told her. Okay, that's good to the park. Now we're going to go, you know, walk
Patricia Naranjo: Uh huh, cuz you know you don't want to keep her stuck inside
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, but you also gotta be careful about people, cuz
Patricia Naranjo: I think this scene is airborne but they won't say
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so you want to keep helping your daughter with her. I mean, your granddaughter with her schoolwork.
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, and
Just get stronger.
Dominique Pozo: Get
Patricia Naranjo: Stronger
Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: Not just physically, but mentally you know because I've had to really cuz when I got into a car accident. I was I was shooting up heroin and drinking and you name it.
Dominique Pozo: Oh. Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: And so
Patricia Naranjo: Somebody said I was laying in the middle of the road.
Patricia Naranjo: They they're down a dark road.
Patricia Naranjo: off of them. Yeah, so that's why the card and that it was a Tahoe, they said to me.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: And then I remember I used to say that to my friends on the TARDIS. Second, I'm just gonna kill myself. So I think I was pulling one of those stunts, you know, laying in the middle of the road.
Dominique Pozo: Hmm.
Patricia Naranjo: And was that happened.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: It's already been
Patricia Naranjo: Since November 17 army November 15 2017
Dominique Pozo: Since the accident.
Yes.
Patricia Naranjo: I've been having some complications, especially with my knee.
Right.
Patricia Naranjo: And then I had a complication when they reversed my colostomy bag. I ended up getting Merseyside my stomach.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, no.
Dominique Pozo: What is, what is a colostomy bag.
Patricia Naranjo: It's where you have instead of pooping regular, you have to poop.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, you have two people in the
Patricia Naranjo: bag, put your yeah they put your test in the angel intestine area.
Patricia Naranjo: Uh huh. On the side
Dominique Pozo: Oh, okay. So you have a bag.
Patricia Naranjo: Or not. Now I did.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh, that's
Patricia Naranjo: November 2018 yeah it's almost three years now.
Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: Yep.
Patricia Naranjo: But I've been going through so much difficulty, like I had to wear that for almost a year and then when they reversed it I
Patricia Naranjo: I got an infection that immersed saw on my stomach so I
Patricia Naranjo: Had to stay in the hospital for a month. And they breed me so now
Patricia Naranjo: I, I don't really have a stomach.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh, see,
Dominique Pozo: huh, uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: And then so for that. I mean, so I've been kind of having complications. The whole almost the whole two years.
Patricia Naranjo: You know what I'm saying.
Dominique Pozo: What I'm
Dominique Pozo: So how would you like to address that or tend to it. Is that something you want to work on your like through diet or
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, I need to. I need to adjust my diet.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, really bad. What would that look like
Well,
Patricia Naranjo: I wouldn't like to eat so much meat.
Okay.
Dominique Pozo: So eat less meat.
Patricia Naranjo: Yes. Okay, that
Patricia Naranjo: Is true that meat does kind of were like weigh you down. You know what I mean.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, it can
Patricia Naranjo: So yeah, change my diet and
Patricia Naranjo: Take I want to get back into meditating.
Patricia Naranjo: I find myself like
Patricia Naranjo: I guess caught in the middle of the old behavior to
Patricia Naranjo: Where I want to be. Do you know what I'm saying ducking. You know, like I'm not too sure where am I going. I know I don't want to go back to where I was at
Dominique Pozo: When you say stuck.
Dominique Pozo: Well, what do you experience the stiffness, because I'm actually seeing, I just want to validate and mirror back to you that I see you've actually you've
Dominique Pozo: You took care of your knee you dealt with that. That was a big issue. You've been, you know, doing the exercise and the
Dominique Pozo: You know the enough movement to keep rehabilitating after the surgery so that feels like a really big step because it seemed to me that the pain was just overwhelming your whole
Dominique Pozo: Your whole being. And so now I see the are available for more connection with your granddaughter. And I'm wondering how the connection with your daughter's going. I know you named wanting to work on that. But I actually see some movement. Where are you feeling stuck patty.
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know, maybe
Patricia Naranjo: Maybe I'm trying to look to a head too far.
Patricia Naranjo: Maybe that's what it is. But yeah, main thing you're right about my daughter, I would like to get a stronger relationship with her because no I didn't raise her
Patricia Naranjo: Oh yeah. Her dad raised her
Patricia Naranjo: She was, yes, since she was three.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, he got he got emergency custody is South Dakota and then his, his dad was feared by a lot of attorneys. So basically last to know when battle.
Patricia Naranjo: Know if you heard of an Indian actor activist named Russell Means
Dominique Pozo: Um, no.
Patricia Naranjo: But I knew that. That's her grandpa. So I had our up. Yeah. Her dad power up here, but anyway.
Patricia Naranjo: So I guess that's where my point where I gave up a lot. I gave up on myself.
Dominique Pozo: Was when you lost connection with your daughter.
Patricia Naranjo: Mm hmm. Well, when she was about 10
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah, she was about 10
Patricia Naranjo: But I would call it a try to call her.
Patricia Naranjo: Seeds that her dad hit away for me because she was going to be
Patricia Naranjo: And this State said she can make her decision where she wanted to go
Patricia Naranjo: Oh isn't I lost them for a whole year.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
Patricia Naranjo: I couldn't find them.
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know.
Dominique Pozo: So,
Patricia Naranjo: She's the anger issues with me.
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: What's the communication like now at this point.
Patricia Naranjo: Um,
Patricia Naranjo: It's okay. I mean,
Patricia Naranjo: I guess I don't say as much as I should, you know,
Patricia Naranjo: Like
Patricia Naranjo: Like I'm just trying to figure out what what her ways are not. I mean, we haven't really talked about it, she was. She works a lot
Patricia Naranjo: So she just gone a lot. So I mean my granddaughter.
Dominique Pozo: What would you like to say to her.
Patricia Naranjo: Is everything okay
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know.
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know, I guess I'm
Patricia Naranjo: Just asked her, What is that I could do, you know, how can I make
Patricia Naranjo: Other anger and insecurity beef, but I can't. You know what I mean, I think it's already
Patricia Naranjo: There from this time by that.
Dominique Pozo: Well I, I wonder if just listening to her might be a beginning step and and just letting her get it out, even if it's some of its not accurate. If it's not the way that things went down for you on your end, if just letting her speak it might be a first step and then
Dominique Pozo: In time, just letting her know, You know if you'd like to hear my story. I'm here to share with you.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: How does that sound.
Patricia Naranjo: That sounds good. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I think it sounds to me that if she's got so much pent up anger. She just may need to be heard. Right now, not explained anything to try to convince her that things weren't were different than they were. But just be heard.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: So anyways, that's what's going on here.
Dominique Pozo: Uh huh.
So,
Dominique Pozo: I can't hear you.
Patricia Naranjo: Know, now they're not gonna that people travel a lot. Oh.
Dominique Pozo: Can you hear me now I can, yeah.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: I can't hear you.
Patricia Naranjo: I don't know if you're talking. I can't hear you.
Oh,
Patricia Naranjo: Can you hear me now.
Patricia Naranjo: Now, I do. Yes, hello, hello. Okay.
Patricia Naranjo: Yeah. That was weird. It was fine for a minute. I just went away.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh, but I was, I was just saying, can you hear me.
Dominique Pozo: I can, yes.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay. No, I was just saying that I can do that. You know, I could just let her talk and
Patricia Naranjo: I just don't want to get more upset.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh,
Dominique Pozo: Am I yeah I, oh, go ahead, go ahead.
Patricia Naranjo: No. No, go ahead. I was finished.
Dominique Pozo: No, I want to forgive me. I just, I was excited. I wanted to share this TED talk with you about ways to have better conversations
Patricia Naranjo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: But I wanted to hear what you had to say.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay, no, that's, that's good. I would like to
Dominique Pozo: Do you want to hear. Do you want to hear this. This woman's really great
Dominique Pozo: Okay, okay.
Dominique Pozo: We're gonna play this for you.
Dominique Pozo: Alright, so
Dominique Pozo: So give me a heads up if you can hear this. Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna play it now. Just, just say, Yes, I can hear it if you can. Because I actually can't see you.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. All right. I want to see a show of hands, how many of you have unfriended someone on Facebook because they said something offensive about politics or religion childcare food.
And how many of you know at least one person that you avoid because you just don't want to talk to them.
You know, it used to be that in order to have a polite conversation we just had to follow the advice of Henry Higgins and My Fair Lady stick to the weather and your health, but these days with climate change and anti vaccine those subjects.
Patricia Naranjo: Are not safe either. So this world that we live in.
Patricia Naranjo: This world in which every conversation has the potential to devolve into an argument where our politicians can't speak to one another.
Patricia Naranjo: And where even the most trivial of issues have someone fighting both passionately for it and against it, it's not normal.
Patricia Naranjo: Pew Research did a study of 10,000 American adults and they found that at this moment, we are more polarized. We are more divided than we ever have been
Patricia Naranjo: In history, we're less likely a compromise which means we're not listening to each other and we make decisions about where to live who to marry and even who our friends are going to be based on what we already believe.
Patricia Naranjo: Again, that means we're not listening to each other a conversation requires a balance between talking and listening. And somewhere along the way we lost that balance.
Patricia Naranjo: Now, part of that is due to technology. The smartphones that you all either have in your hands or close enough that you could grab them really quickly.
Patricia Naranjo: According to Pew Research, about a third of American teenagers send more than 100 texts a day, and many of them almost most of them are more likely to text their friends than they are to talk to them face to face.
There's this great piece in The Atlantic was written by a high school teacher named Paul Barnwell and he gave his kids a communication project. He wanted to teach them how to speak on a specific subject without using notes and he said this, I came to realize
I came to realize that conversational competence might be the single most overlooked skill we failed to teach
kids spend hours each day engaging with ideas and each other through screens, but rarely do they have an opportunity to hone their interpersonal communication skills.
It might sound like a funny question, but we have to ask ourselves, Is there any 21st century skill more important than being able to sustain sustain coherent confident conversation.
Now I make my living talking to people, Nobel Prize winners truck drivers billionaires kindergarten teachers heads of state.
plumbers, I talked to people that I like I talked to people that I don't like I talked to some people that I disagree with deeply on a personal level, but I still have a great conversation with them. So I'd like to spend the next 10 minutes or so teaching you how to talk and how to listen.
Many of you have already heard a lot of advice on this things like look, the person in the eye. Think of interesting thing topics to discuss in advance. Look nod and smile. The show that you're paying attention.
repeat back what you just heard or summarize it. So I want you to forget all of that it is crap.
There is no reason to learn how to show you're paying attention. If you are in fact
Paying attention.
Now I actually use the exact same skills as a professional interviewer that I do in regular life.
Patricia Naranjo: So I'm going to teach you how to interview people. And that's actually going to help you learn how to be
Patricia Naranjo: Better conversationalist learned to have a conversation without wasting your time without getting bored and please God without offending anybody
Patricia Naranjo: We've all had really great conversations we've had them before we know what it's like the kind of conversation where you walk away feeling engaged and inspired
Patricia Naranjo: Or you feel like you've made a real connection or you've been perfectly understood
Patricia Naranjo: There was no reason why most of your interactions can't be like that. So I have 10 basic rules. I'm going to walk you through all of them, but honestly, if you just choose one of them.
Patricia Naranjo: And master it, you're already enjoy better conversations. Number one, don't multitask. And I don't mean just set down your cell phone or your tablet or your car keys or whatever's in your hand. I mean, be present.
Patricia Naranjo: Be in that moment, don't be thinking about your argument you have with your boss. Don't be thinking about what you're going to have for dinner. If you want to get out.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Yeah. What's that party is it getting broken
Patricia Naranjo: Up. Yeah.
Oh, no.
Patricia Naranjo: I know. Oh.
Gosh.
Dominique Pozo: Can you move closer to your router.
Patricia Naranjo: While it's in the living room in there and they're watching a movie.
Oh,
Dominique Pozo: Do you want me to keep going with this, or just stop.
Dominique Pozo: Are you still there.
Patricia Naranjo: Domini
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Would you like me to keep playing the video or do you want me to stop it.
Patricia Naranjo: I'm
Patricia Naranjo: Kind of interested
Dominique Pozo: It is
Patricia Naranjo: I know it's
Dominique Pozo: And it is interesting. And I'm my, my hope is that it serves you, with your daughter, but if you can't hear it.
Patricia Naranjo: Oh, I see. So breaking up.
Dominique Pozo: Why don't you try popping off. Yep. Why don't you try popping off and on again because
Dominique Pozo: That seemed to help last time.
Patricia Naranjo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, okay. So take your video off and then that'll help give you more streaming then then let's see how this sounds Okay, let me know if it
Dominique Pozo: If it's OK.
LGL158VL: OK. OK.
Dominique Pozo: And I'll rewind it just a little bit so that you can get basically the 10 the 10 reasons why most of your interactions can't be like that.
LGL158VL: So I have 10 basic rules. I'm going to walk you through all of them, but honestly, if you just choose one of them.
Dominique Pozo: And master it, you're already enjoy better conversations. Number one, don't multitask. And I don't mean just set down your cell phone or your tablet or your car keys or whatever is in your hand. I mean, be present.
Dominique Pozo: Be in that moment, don't be thinking about your argument, you have to your boss. Don't be thinking about what you're going to have for dinner. If you want to get out of the conversation. Get out of the conversation, but don't be half in it and half out of it.
Dominique Pozo: Number two, don't pontificate if you wanted to state your opinion without any opportunity for response or argument or push back or growth, write a blog.
LGL158VL: Know there's a really good reason why I don't allow pundits on my show, because they're really boring.
LGL158VL: If they are conservative, they're going to hate Obama and food stamps and abortion. If they're a liberal or they're going to hate big banks and oil corporations and Dick Cheney.
LGL158VL: totally predictable and you don't want to be like that you need to enter every conversation, assuming that you have something to learn
LGL158VL: The famous therapist M. Scott Peck said that true listening requires a setting aside of oneself and sometimes that means, setting aside your personal opinion.
LGL158VL: He said that sensing this acceptance. The speaker will become less and less vulnerable and more and more likely to open up the inner recesses of his or her mind to the listener.
LGL158VL: Again, assume that you have something to learn. Bill Nye everyone you will ever meet know something that you don't. I put it this way. Everybody is an expert in something
LGL158VL: Number three, use open ended questions in this case, take a cue from journalists, start your questions with who, what, where, when, why, or how
LGL158VL: If you put in a complicated question. You're going to get a simple answer out if I asked you where you terrified.
LGL158VL: You're going to respond to the most powerful word in that sentence which is terrified. And the answer is yes. I was there. No, I wasn't. Were you angry. Yes, I was very angry.
LGL158VL: Let them describe it, the ones that know try asking them things like what was that like, how did that feel, because then they might have to stop for a moment and think about it.
LGL158VL: And you're going to get a much more interesting response. Number four, go with the flow. That means thoughts will come into your mind and you need to let them go out of your mind.
LGL158VL: We've heard interviews, often in which a guest is talking for several minutes, and then the host comes back in and asked a question, which seems like it comes out of nowhere, or it's already been answered.
LGL158VL: That means the host probably stopped listening, two minutes ago because he thought of this really clever question.
LGL158VL: And he was just bound and determined to say that, and we do the exact same thing. We're sitting there having a conversation with someone and then we remember that time that we met Hugh Jackman in a coffee shop.
And we stopped listening stories and ideas are going to come to you. You need to let them come and let them go. Number five. If you don't know say that you don't know
Now people on the radio, especially on NPR are much more aware that they're going on the record. And so they're more careful about what they claim to be an expert in and what they claim to know for sure.
Do that err on the side of caution talk should not be cheap number six don't equate your experience with theirs.
If they're talking about having lost a family member.
Don't start talking about the time that you lost a family member, if you're talking about the trouble that they're having it work, don't tell them about how much you hate job. It's not the same. It is never the same.
All experiences are individual and, more importantly, it is not about you. You don't need to take that moment to prove how amazing you are or how much you've suffered. Somebody asked Stephen Hawking once what his IQ was and he says, I have no idea. People who brag about their IQ are losers.
Conversations are not a promotional opportunity.
Number seven.
Try not to repeat yourself it's condescending and it's really boring and we tend to do it a lot, especially in work conversations or in conversations with our kids. We have a point to make. So we just keep rephrasing it over and over
LGL158VL: Don't do that. Number eight. Stay out of the weeds, frankly, people don't care about the years the names the dates all those details that you're struggling to come up with in your mind. They don't care what they care about is you
LGL158VL: The care about what you're like what you have in common. So forget the details, leave them out. Number nine. This is not the last one, but it is the most important one, listen.
LGL158VL: I cannot tell you how many really important. People have said that listening is perhaps the most, the number one most important skill that you could develop
LGL158VL: Buddha said, and I'm paraphrasing. If your mouth is open, you're not learning and Calvin Coolidge said, No man ever listened his way out of a job.
LGL158VL: Why do we not listen to each other. Number one, we'd rather talk when I'm talking. I'm in control. I don't have to hear anything. I'm not interested in
LGL158VL: I'm the center of attention. I can bolster my own identity. But there's another reason we get distracted.
LGL158VL: The average person talks at about 225 words per minute, but we can listen at up to 500 words per minute.
LGL158VL: So our minds are filling in those other 275 words. And look, I know it takes effort and energy to actually pay attention to someone. But if you can't do that, you're not in a conversation. You're just two people shouting out barely related sentences in the same place.
You have to, you have to listen to one another. Stephen Covey said it very beautifully. He said, most of us don't listen with the intent to understand we listen with the intent to reply.
LGL158VL: One more rule and number 10 and it's this one be brief.
Dominique Pozo: All of this boils down to the same basic concept and it is this one be interested in other people
Dominique Pozo: You know, I grew up with a very famous grandfather and there was kind of a ritual in my home. People would come over to talk to my grandparents.
Dominique Pozo: And after they would leave my mother would come over to her house and she'd say, Do you know who that was, she was the runner up to Miss America. He was the mayor of Sacramento. She won the Pulitzer Prize. He's a Russian ballet dancer.
Dominique Pozo: And I started, I kind of grew up, assuming everyone has some hidden amazing thing about them and I honestly I think it's what makes me a better host
Dominique Pozo: I keep my mouth shut, as often as I possibly can. I keep my mind open and I'm always prepared to be amazed and I'm never disappointed you do the same thing, go out, talk to people listen to people, and most importantly, be prepared to be amazed. Thanks.
Dominique Pozo: How was that
Dominique Pozo: For you Patty.
LGL158VL: Yeah, that was, that was cool.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah. Was there anything in particular that stood out for you that might be helpful.
LGL158VL: Stop.
LGL158VL: People
LGL158VL: 20 more minutes, you know,
LGL158VL: Whatever. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Hmm. So being present.
LGL158VL: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Well,
Dominique Pozo: We still have a little bit of time. Is there more that you want to talk about or we could go into a mindfulness practice. What would, what would be best for you.
LGL158VL: Next time,
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so
Dominique Pozo: Oh, great. Okay, so go ahead and
Dominique Pozo: If you want to just close your eyes and
Dominique Pozo: Just bring your attention to your breath, having this
Dominique Pozo: You know, these next few minutes are devoted to some self connection.
Dominique Pozo: Really feeling that inhalation move through the body.
Dominique Pozo: Noticing the exhalation.
Dominique Pozo: And then just starting from the top of your head. We're just going to do a scan down your body so scanning from the top of your head down the forehead just noticing in between your eyes, your eyebrows.
Dominique Pozo: Your cheeks.
Dominique Pozo: Your job, your tongue.
Dominique Pozo: Your mouth just feeling into the muscles in the face right now and noticing whatever you do.
Okay.
Dominique Pozo: And then moving down from the face to the throat and the back of the neck.
Dominique Pozo: Down the shoulders.
Dominique Pozo: Down both arms crossing your elbows.
Dominique Pozo: Crossing the wrists into the hands
Dominique Pozo: Moving your attention back up to the chest and the upper back.
Dominique Pozo: And then your belly that space above your belly button. An MIT back
Dominique Pozo: And then the space below your belly button and your low back.
Dominique Pozo: Your hips and your upper legs.
Dominique Pozo: And then your needs your healthy, strong recovering knees feeling into the knee joints just noticing any sensations in there.
Dominique Pozo: And then down the lower legs crossing the ankles.
Dominique Pozo: Again, noticing any sensations.
Dominique Pozo: You cross into the feet.
Dominique Pozo: And then feeling that connection with your feet to the ground.
Dominique Pozo: And noticing the ground beneath you, that's holding and supporting you.
Dominique Pozo: And then move your attention from the actual floor of the House to the earth body, the ground of the earth bone beneath the house.
Dominique Pozo: And just connect to that big foundation. This earth ground that's holding us all.
Dominique Pozo: I really feel that, and as you exhale, the next exhalation. See if you can relax into
Dominique Pozo: The ground.
Dominique Pozo: Allowing your muscles to
Dominique Pozo: Release and let go.
Dominique Pozo: And then just bring your attention back back up a little bit back towards your mind and just check in. How about just a phrase of, you know, checking out. How are you doing right now.
Before we say
Dominique Pozo: Huh.
Yeah.
LGL158VL: Thanks. Good.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, well, you can keep keep doing that throughout the day. If you feel like you know you're hearing about how the
Dominique Pozo: Cases of the coronavirus are increasing. Just take a deep, deep breath and a moment and recognize that, at least as far as we know, you don't have it, your family members don't have it, your home together.
LGL158VL: Yeah, okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. All right. Patty.
Dominique Pozo: All right. Okay.
Dominique Pozo: See you soon. I'll see you in group next Wednesday. Yeah.
LGL158VL: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
LGL158VL: Good one. Okay.
You too. Bye.
Dominique Pozo: Thank you. I'm so glad you're doing better with your
Dominique Pozo: Knee. That's so great.
LGL158VL: I know. All right. Thank you.
LGL158VL: Okay, bye. Bye. See you. Bye bye.